
The key job of computer science in the different areas of business and research requires a well-grounded and current knowledge that exceeds the first professional degree.
During the master program "M.Sc. Applied Computer Science" we convey the knowledge and skills on a high level.
Furthermore, the degree is a requirement for the admission of a graduated program in computer science.
All facts at a glance
Overview
Content, objective and process of study
Career, perspectives
Application
All facts at a glance
Overview
Degree	Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Credit Points	
120.
Duration of Study	
2 years.
Starting	
Annually, starting 1 October and 1 April
Study model	Full time
Entrance criteria	
recognized Bachelor degree (180 ECTS or 210 ECTS for the shortened degree program) or a German Diploma in computer science, “virtual realities”, “applied computer science” , “information management” , IT , software development or similar degree courses.
good knowledge in Java, C++ and database
IELTS 6.5 / TOEFL 80 or other proof of English proficiency
Languages	English
Tuition Fees	
750 EUR per month + one-time registration fee of 750 EUR
Applicants from countries with a visa obligation need to pay a one-time registration fee of 1,000 EUR and all tuition fees must be paid in advance.
YOUR CONTACT FOR ACS COURSE IS SEBASTIAN HOFFMANN.
YOUR CONTACT FOR DATA SCIENCE IS BARBARA SPRICK.
 

 

Content, objective and process of study
Key task of Computer Science

The key task of computer science in the different areas of business and research requires a well-grounded and current knowledge, that exceeds the first academic degree. During the master program "M.Sc. Applied Computer Science" we convey the knowledge and skills on a high level. Furthermore, the degree is a requirement for the admission of a graduated program in computer science.

Examples of optional topics

SAP Enterprise Service Architectures

SAP System, Application, Customization

ABAP Distributed Systems Databases and Data Mining

3D Visualization and Game Development

The program modules

Module	Credit
Points
Required Modules	
IT-Security	8
Software Development Practice	8
Information Systems	8
Specialization Module I	8
Software Architecture and Development	8
Advanced Computer Science	8
Specialization Module II	8
Current Topics in Computer Science	4
International Project Management	8
Specialization Module III	8
Electives	
(Elective Module) Internship	14
(Elective Module) Research Project	14
Master Thesis Seminar	4
Master Thesis	26
Specialization Business Computing	
Business Application Systems and Development	8
SAP Technology	8
SAP HANA	8
SAP Development ABAP	8
SAP Netweaver Business Process Management	8
Internet & Network Technologies	8
Applied Research	8
Specialization Multimedia Development	
Advanced Game Design	8
Applied Artificial Intelligence	8
Development of Multimedia Systems	8
Developing Multimedia Learning Systems	8
Developing Mobile Applications	8
Career, perspectives
A master’s degree in informatics increases your chance of securing a lucrative position in the software and IT industry. 
With our master’s degree you will acquire the necessary knowledge and skills required for different kind of employments. 
Our graduates are working for large enterprises such as AIRBUS, ADIDAS, AUDI, BOSCH, BMW, BASF, DEUTSCHE BOERSE, DKFZ, SAP, TRIMUPH, VERIVOX, etc. and many more small and medium sized companies.
Our programme is also accredited for senior positions in the public sector. 
Furthermore, a master’s degree qualifies for research e.g. doctoral studies.

Possible jobs

Software Ingenieur and architect
System analyst
System Designer
Project manager
Application
If you are interested in our master’s degree program "Applied Computer Science", you can apply online.

Contact Sebastian Hoffmann
Organisation

Fakultät für Information, Medien und Design
Room arc209
Ludwig-Guttmann-Str. 6
69123 Heidelberg
Telephone +49 6221 88-1015
Course Administrator
Gerd Moeckel
Prof. Dr. Gerd Moeckel
Professor

Fakultät für Information, Medien und Design
Studiengangsleitung Applied Computer Science
Room arc208
Ludwig-Guttmann-Str. 6
69123 Heidelberg
Telephone +49 6221 88-3512
